Welcome to our comprehensive guide on JDBC CRUD operations in Spring Boot.
Today we'll build a complete Maven project with database operations.
JDBC stands for Java Database Connectivity and it's fundamental for data access.
Let's start by setting up our Spring Boot Maven project structure.
Add the necessary dependencies: spring-boot-starter-jdbc and your database driver.
Configure your database connection properties in application.properties.
Create your entity class to represent the database table structure.
Now let's implement the CREATE operation using JdbcTemplate.
The INSERT statement allows us to add new records to the database.
Next, we'll implement the READ operation to fetch data from the database.
Use SELECT queries with row mappers to convert results to Java objects.
The UPDATE operation modifies existing records based on specific conditions.
Always include a WHERE clause to avoid updating all records accidentally.
Finally, the DELETE operation removes records from the database.
Be careful with DELETE statements and always test with small datasets first.
Error handling and transaction management are crucial for robust applications.
Use try-catch blocks and consider using @Transactional annotations.
That completes our JDBC CRUD operations tutorial in Spring Boot!